# Data Fields in DARIA
This is a basic data dictionary of every field collected by DARIA.

Field | Description | Exportable? | Reported by | Input Type
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
**Age** | Patient's age in years | Exportable | Patient Reported | Text field
**Race/Ethnicity** | Patient's race or ethinicity | Exportable | Patient Reported | Dropdown
**Insurance** | Patient's current insurance coverage, if any. This includes public and private options. | Exportable | Patient Reported | Dropdown
**Employment Status** | Patient's current employment status | Exportable | Patient Reported | Dropdown
**Income Level** | Patient's income level (ranges) |  | Patient Reported | Dropdown
**City** | Patient's city | Exportable | Patient Reported | Text field
**State** | Patient's state of residency | Exportable | Patient Reported | Text field
**County** | Patient's county of residency | Exportable | Patient Reported | Text field
**Referred by** | How did the patient found out about or was referred to the Fund | Exportable | Patient Reported | Dropdown
**Special Circumstances** | What special circumstances is this patient dealing with at the time of the call? | Exportable | Patient Reported | Multiple checkboxes
**LMP at intake** | How many weeks from a patient's Last Missed Period as reported during our first interaction. This is often a guess from the patient, but may also be an exact calculation from an ultrasound. We use LMP interchangably with 'weeks pregnant' in our funding contexts, even though this may be a different number in actuality. While DARIA automatically calculates LMP after this first interaction, LMP is editable if a patient receives a more accurate calculation later in the case management process. | Exportable | Patient Reported | Text field
**ID** | ID number assigned to the patient when their file is created. Based on the patient's phone number | Not Exportable | Autogenerated | Autogenerated
**Name** | Patient's name | Not Exportable | Patient Reported | Text field
**Primary Phone Number** | Patient's primary phone number which CM will use to reach the patient | Not Exportable | Patient Reported | Text field
**DCAF Line** | The line the patient called and is being case managed under?| Exportable | Autogenerated | Autogenerated
**Language** | If the patient requires or prefers case management in a language other than English | Exportable | Patient Reported | Dropdown
**Voicemail Preference** | The patient's preference for leaving voicemails and the CM identifying themselves as a representative for the Fund when returning calls. Options are: "Voicemail ok/ID ok," "No instructions given; Voicemail OK; Do not identify as Fund," and "Do not leave a VM; Do not identify as Fund"| ??? | Patient Reported | Dropdown
**Other Contact Name** | Any other person we may encounter during case management and is authorized by the patient to speak on their behalf. This could be relatives, friends, or other social services case managers. | Not Exportable | Patient Reported | Text field
**Other Contact Phone** | Any other phone number a patient may be reached at. This may be their other contact's phone number or an additional number owned by the patient. | Not Exportable | Patient Reported | Text field
**Other Contact Relationship** | If a patient has an additional contact, their relationship is recorded here. Often, more details will be given in the notes section as to the patient's case management circumstances. | Not Exportable | Patient Reported | Text field
**Did PT have other contact** | When exported, all contacts are purged. This is a boolean data point to indicate another contact was given. | Exportable | Autogenerated | Autogenerated
**Adults in Household** | Number of adults (relatives, roommates, other adults) that live most of the time in the patient's household. | ??? | Patient Reported | Text field
**Minors in Household**| Number of children under the age of 18 (patient's children, relatives, other children) that live most of the time in the patient's household. | ??? | Patient Reported | Text field
**Clinic name** | Name of the clinic where the patient will have their procedure. | Exportable | Patient Reported | Dropdown
**Resolved Without Fund** | The patient has resolved their case without the aid of the Fund. This could be a patient chooses to continue the pregnancy, has found other sources of funding, or any other circumstances the Fund should not continue contacting the patient. | Exportable | Patient Reported | Checkbox
**Full Cost of Appointment** | The full cost of the patient's appointment as reported by the patient. | Exportable | Patient Reported | Text field
**PT Contribution** | The amount of money contributed by the patient. This amount may change at the actual appointment, but is used during case management to record how much a patient can possibly contribute. | Exportable | Patient Reported | Text field
**NAF Contribution** | The amount contributed by the National Abortion Federation, a large, national abortion funding organization. This amount may change at the actual appointment, but is used during case management to record how much NAf can contribute. | Exportable | Patient Reported | Text field
**Fund Contribution** | The amount the Fund is contributing to the patient's procedure in the form of a pledge sent to the clinic. | Exportable | CM Reported | Text field
**Other Contributions (Fund/Amount)** | The amount contributed by the other abortion funds. This amount may change at the actual appointment, but is used during case management to record how much each fund can contribute.  recorded with both a clinic name and amount of money contributed. | Exportable | Patient Reported | Text field
**Was there a pledge sent?**| This indicates if a pledge was generated through the DARIA system for a patient. | Exportable | Autogenerated | Autogenerated
**Initial Call Date** | The date a patient's file was first created in DARIA. | Exportable | Autogenerated | Autogenerated
**Urgent Flag** | This boolean flag is used to indicate an urgent case. This is used primarily for communication between case managers and has no impact on funding. | Exportable | CM Reported | Checkbox
**When was pledge generated** | Date autogenerated from the DARIA system when a pledge is generated. | Exportable | Autogenerated | Autogenerated
**Notes** | These are multiple, large text fields used by case managers to record details of the case which could impact case management or funding. Each note is paired with a date/time stamp and attributed to a CM.| Not Exportable | Patient Reported | Large text fields
**Pledge Fulfillment Date** | Date a pledge fulfillment is recorded in the DARIA system. | Exportable | Admin Reported | Autogenerated
**Procedure Date** | Date of the procedure. | Exportable | Patient Reported | Text field
**LMP at appointment** | The patient's LMP at the time of appointment as reported by the clinic when the pledge is returned to Fund for payment processing. | Exportable | Clinic Reported | Text field
**Check Number** | The number of the check sent to a clinic for pledge fulfillment. | Not Exportable | Admin Reported | Text field
**Check Date** | The date of the check sent to a clinic for pledge fulfillment. | Exportable | Admin Reported | Text field

## Each patient also has multiple calls, for each:

Field | Description | Exportable? | Reported by | Input
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
**Call date/time**| The date and time a call is recorded in DARIA. | ??? | CM Reported | Autogenerated
**Call result** | The result of the call as reported by the case manager. | ??? | CM Reported | Links
**Call CM** | The case manager that made and recorded the call. | ??? | Autogenerated | Autogenerated

